# git-state(1) -- a customizable view for the state of a working tree

## SYNOPSIS

`git state` [`view`] [`--show-all`] [(`-s`|`--show`) <extension> [<extension> ...]]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-S`|`--no-show`) <extension> [<extension> ...]]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-e`|`--show-empty`)] [(`-E`|`--no-show-empty`)]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-c`|`--color`) [<when>]] [(`-C`|`--no-color`)]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-p`|`--pretty`)] [(`-f`|`--format`) <format>]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[`--clear`] [`--no-clear`] [`--no-page`]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-o`|`--order`) <section> [<section> ...]]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-O`|`--options`) _option_ [_option_ ...]]<br>
`git state create` (`-c`|`--command`) <command> [(`-n`|`--name`) <name>]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-o`|`--options`) <options>] [`--no-show`] [`--no-color`]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<extension><br>
`git state edit` [(`-c`|`--command`) <command>] [(`-n`|`--name`) <name>]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;[(`-o`|`--options`) <options>] [`--no-show`] [`--no-color`]<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;<extension><br>
`git state delete` <extension><br>
`git state config` <extension><br>
`git state list`<br>
`git state run` <extension><br>
`git state` (`-h`|`--help`)<br>
`git state` (`-v`|`--version`)

## DESCRIPTION

Used to see a more concise and comprehensive view of the working directory through custom extensions.

## OPTIONS

* `view`:
    View the current state of a repository.

    * `-h`|`--help`:
        Print a simple help message.

    * `-v`|`--version`:
        Print version.

    * `--show-all`:
        Show all extensions.

    * `-s`|`--show` <extension>:
        A list of extensions to show. Option based shows always take precedence over hides. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

    * `-S`|`--no-show` <extension>:
        A list of extensions to hide. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

    * `-e`|`--show-empty`:
        Show empty sections rather than omitting them.

    * `-E`|`--no-show-empty`:
        Omit empty sections. This only applies to the status section when no clean message is used.

    * `-c`|`--color` [<when>]:
        Color output. <when> must be one of `always`, `never`, or `auto`. Defaults to `color.ui` configuration value or `auto`.

    * `-C`|`--no-color`:
        Never color output. Same as `--color=never`.

    * `-p`|`--pretty`:
        Display in pretty format. This is equivalent to `-f`|`--format` <pretty>.

    * `-f`|`--format` <format>:
        The format used to print each section. Valid values include: <compact> and <pretty>.

    * `--clear` :
        Clear the screen before printing.

    * `--no-clear`:
        Do not clear the screen before printing.

    * `--no-page`:
        Do not page output if it exceeds the terminal window.

    * `-o`|`--order` <section> [<section> ...]:
        A custom section order.

    * `-O`|`--options` _option_ [_option_ ...]:
        A list of options to pass to an extension. Options are formatted as `<extension_name>:<option>`. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

* `create`:
    Create an extension.

    * `extension`:
        Name of the extension. Must be a valid `git-config` sub-section name.

    * `-c`|`--command` <command>:
        The command to execute.

    * `-n`|`--name` <name>:
        The section name to use when printing the extension alongside others.

    * `-o`|`--options` <options>:
        Any other options to include when running the extension command.

    * `--no-show`:
        Set the extension to not show by default. `--show` <extension> will override this setting at execution time.

    * `--no-color`:
        Do no include coloring option `--color=<when>` when executing the command.

* `edit`:
    Edit an extension.

    * `extension`:
        Name of the extension. Must be a valid `git-config` sub-section name.

    * `-c`|`--command` <command>:
        The command to execute.

    * `-n`|`--name` <name>:
        The section name to use when printing the extension alongside others.

    * `-o`|`--options` <options>:
        Any other options to include when running the extension command.

    * `--no-show`:
        Set the extension to not show by default. `--show` <extension> will override this setting at execution time.

    * `--no-color`:
        Do no include coloring option `--color=<when>` when executing the command.

* `delete`:
    Delete an extension.

    * `extension`:
        The name of an extension.

* `config`:
    View the configuration of an extension.

    * `extension`:
        The name of an extension.

* `list`:
    List the names of all extensions. This command has no options.

* `run`:
    Run an extension. This command overrides any option that would otherwise hide the extension.

    * `extension`:
        The name of an extension.

## CONFIGURATION

* `git-state.status.show-clean-message` <bool>:
	True or false flag determining whether a message should be printed when the working directory is clean. Similar to `git status`.

	Default: <true>

* `git-state.format` <string>:
	The default formatting for git-state. Valid options include: `pretty` and `compact`. If no value is specified or an invalid value is entered, compact is used. The options `-f`|`--format` <format> or `-p`|`--pretty` will override this setting.

	Default: <compact>

* `git-state.show-empty` <bool>:
	True or false flag determining whether empty sections should be shown. Options (`-e`|`--show-empty`) and (`-E`|`--no-show-empty`) override this value.

	Default: <false>

* `git-state.clear` <bool>:
	True or false flag determining whether to clear the screen before printing. Options `--clear` and `--no-clear` override this value.

	Default: <true>

* `color.ui` <string>:
	Determines whether or not colors are printed in the output. Options `--color` [<when>] and `--no-color` override this value.

	Default: <auto>

* `git-state.extensions.*.command` <string>:
	A custom command to execute and print as its own section. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

* `git-state.extensions.*.name` <string>:
	A custom name for an extension. If not specified, the extension key is used. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

* `git-state.extensions.*.options` <string>:
	Options to pass to the extension. These are merged with any command line options for the extension. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

* `git-state.extensions.*.show` <bool>:
	True or false flag determining whether to show the extension. Options `--show` <extension> and `--no-show` <extension> override this value. See **[EXTENSIONS][]** section for more detail.

	Default: <true>

* `git-state.extensions.*.color` <bool>:
	Whether the extension should be called with `--color=<when>`.

	Default: <true>

* `git-state.order` <string>:
	Custom order in which to print sections. Multiple section names are separated by a pipe (|) character. Any remaining sections not included are printed in the order they are handled internally. Option `-o`|`--order` overrides this value.

## EXTENSIONS

Out of the box, `git-state` isn't that useful. It simply reformats `git status --short`. That's where extensions come in. Extensions allow you to configure `git-state` to show the information useful to you. One can be created by running the `extension create` command:

```
git state extension create log --command 'git log --oneline -10'
```

The extension can be any valid script or command.

```bash
$ git alias graph "git log --oneline --graph --all --decorate -10"
$ git state extensions create graph --command "git graph"
$ git state
# status (state-extensions)

     M bin/commands/state.py
     M man/man1/git-state.ronn

# graph

    *   b27b2e5 (master) Merge branch 'fix-blank-lines'
    |\
    | * c40b5cf Fix upstream printing blank line
    | * 918d4f7 Fix settings printing blank line
    |/
    *   89736f9 Merge branch 'fix-documentation'
    |\
    | * 0e7cc6e Add see also section
    | * 059ff8b Fix settings documentation formatting
    | * 4d66f32 Fix changes documentation
    |/
    | * 48ab35e (HEAD, state-extensions) Fix status title
    | * bc45540 Refactor how arguments are passed into subcommands
    | * a0ea096 Refactor parameters

$
```

Extension settings are stored in config files like all other git configurations. They can be edited manually but it is highly discouraged unless you are create global extensions. This is due to a limitation of the `extensions` command that only modifies local configuration files. However, `git-state` will inspect non-local files.

### Coloring
By default, an extension must accept the flag `--color=`<when>. This flag must be respected so coloring options are matched. <when> will only be one of: <never> or <always>. If an extension never colors, include `--no-color` when creating the extension.

### Naming
The section name for an extension defaults to the key name but can be overridden by including `--name <name>`.

### Option Passing
Options can be passed to an extension using the `-O|--option` flag and are applied in the order they are received. Values passed this way must be formatted as `<extension_name>:<option>`. The `extension_name` refers to the value used in configuration defining the extension. Not the display name.

For instance, say an extension were defined to show changes: `git state extensions create changes --command 'git changes'`. It could be toggled to run in stat mode and against develop by using `--options changes:develop changes:--stat`.

Options can be handled per configuration by setting `--options <options>`.

### Hide an Extension
An extension can be hidden by setting `--no-show`. This is useful for globally defined extensions that aren't needed for all repositories.

Alternatively, an extension can be hidden by listing it in `--no-show` <extension> [<extension> ...].

## SEE ALSO

git-status(1), git-config(1)
